=head1 NAME

zoid - a modular perl shell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

zoid [options] [-] [files]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Zoidberg provides a modular Perl shell written, configured, and operated entirely
in Perl. It aspires to be a fully operational login shell with all the features
one normally expects. But it also gives direct access to Perl objects and data
structures from the command line, and allows you to run Perl code within the
scope of your commandline. Although Zoidberg does not do the language
interpreting itself -- it uses perl to do this -- it supplies powerful language
extensions aimed at creating an easy to use interface.

By default B<zoid> runs an interactive commandline when both STDIN and STDOUT
are terminal devices, or reads from STDIN till End Of Line and execute each 
line like it was entered interactively. 
When an I<action> is specified by one of the commandline options this will 
suppress the default behavior and exit after executing that action.
If any file names are given, these will be interpreted as source scripts and 
suppress default behavior. 
Be aware that these source scripts are expected to be Perl scripts and are
B<NOT> interpreted or executed the same way as normal input.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-e> I<command>, B<--exec>=I<command>

Execute a string as interpreted by zoidberg. If non-interactive exits with
exit status of command string. Multiple commands may be given to build up 
a multi-line script.  Make sure to use semicolons where you would in a 
normal multi-line script.

=item B<-c> I<command>, B<--command>=I<command> 

Does the same as B<--exec> but this is bound to change.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

=item B<-u>, B<--usage>

Print a help message and exits.

=item B<-I>I<dir>[,I<dir>]

The specified directories are added to the module search path  
C<@INC>.

=item B<-i>, B<--interactive>

Start an interactive shell. This is the default if no other options are
supplied.

=item B<-l>, B<--login>

Force login behavior, this will reset your current working directory.
This variable is also available to plugins and scripts, which might act on it.

=item B<-s>, B<--stdin>

Read input from stdin. This is the default if no other options are supplied and 
neither stdin or stdout are terminal devices.

=item B<-r> I<file>, B<--rcfile>=I<file>

Use an alternative rcfile.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Sets the shell in verbose mode. This will cause each command to be echoed to STDERR.

=item B<--norc>

Skip all rcfiles.

=item B<-C>, B<--config>

Print a list of configuration variable of this installation and exit.
Most importantly this tells you where B<zoid> will search for it's configuration
and data files.

=item B<-D>, B<-D>I<Class> B<--debug>

Set either the global debug bit or set the debug bit for the given class.
Using the global variant makes B<zoid> output a lot of debug information.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Display version information. 

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

Apart from the standard variables like $HOME and $USER, B<zoid> uses the 
following environment variables:

=over 4

=item $XDG_CACHE_HOME

Defines the directory to write temporary files, it defaults to F<$HOME/.cache>.

=item $ZOID

Contains the filename by which B<zoid> was executed. For 'sh-shells' this would
be $SHELL, but due to this some programs expect $SHELL contain the path to a fully
POSIX compliant shell.

=item $ZOIDPID

Contains the process id of the current B<zoid>, used for IPC.

=item $ZOIDREF

Contains either a reference or a string representation of the current Zoidberg 
object, used for IPC.

=back

=head1 FILES

Zoidberg uses rc files, data files and plugin files, use the B<--config> switch
to check the search paths in use for a particular installation.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error messages may be issued either by B<perl> or by one any of the
modules in use. The B<zoid> utility itself will only complain when the commandline
options are wrong. If the error was thrown by one of the core modules, the error 
message will either start with the module name or the name of the command that went wrong.

FIXME what about debugging and more verbose errors ?

See also L<splain(1)>.

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

Source files and command input are I<NOT> interpreted the same way.

Use B<-e> _or_ B<-c>, do not mix them.

=head1 BUGS

Known bugs are listed in the F<BUGS> file, which is included in the source
package. Visit the web page to submit bug reports or mail the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl(1)>,
L<zoiduser(1)>,
L<zoiddevel(1)>,
L<zoidfaq(1)>,
L<Zoidberg(3)>,
L<http://zoidberg.sourceforge.net>

=head1 AUTHORS

Jaap Karssenberg || Pardus [Larus] E<lt>pardus@cpan.orgE<gt>

R.L. Zwart, E<lt>rlzwart@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002 Jaap G Karssenberg and RL Zwart. All 
rights reserved. This program is free software; you can 
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See either
the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for
more details.

L<http://www.perl.com/language/misc/Artistic.html>
L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>

