=head1 NAME

Zoidberg - a modular perl shell

zoid     - a frontend script to the Zoidberg shell

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Zoidberg provides a shell written in perl, configured in perl and operated in perl.
It is intended to be a replacement for command language interpreters like
bash, ksh, csh in the future, but that is a long way.
Although Zoidberg does not do the language interpreting itself -- it uses
perl to do this -- it supplies powerfull language extensions aimed at creating
an easy to use interface.
Unlike bash Zoidberg does _not_ want to be POSIX compliant, and only is
so when necessary. Also this won't be the most harware-efficient software
you've ever seen - it is never intended to be so.
Most likely you will have to be a perl programmer or developer to enjoy this.

You most likely want to use the default config files as installed
by the ProgramFiles package and all the modules from the Zoidberg
package.

The rest of this documentation supposses 
you to have both default packackages installed.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    zoid [options]

    Options:
       --help           Detailed help message
       --exec           execute string
       --command        does the same as --exec
       --version        display version information
       --interaction    start interactive shell
       --nointeraction  execute non-interactive

=head1 OPTIONS

Abbreviations of options are also allowed.

=over 4

=item B<-h, --help>

    Print a this help message and exits.

=item B<-e, --exec>

    Execute string as interpreted by zoidberg.
    If non-interactive exits with exit status
    of command string.

=item B<-c, --command>

    Does the same as exec.

=item B<-v, --version>

    Display version information.
    The displayed version is the version of the
    Zoidberg module, not of the program files.

=item B<-i, --interaction>

    Start an interactive shell.
    This is the default if no exec string is
    supplied. If exec string is supplied
    nointeraction becomes default.

=item B<--nointeraction>

    Do not start interactive shell - just
    execute commandline options and exit.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Many since Zoidberg is still in developement stage.

=head1 AUTHORS

Jaap Karssenberg || Pardus [Larus] E<lt>j.g.karssenberg@student.utwente.nlE<gt>

R.L. Zwart, E<lt>carlos@caremail.nlE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2002 Jaap G Karssenberg. All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/language/misc/Artistic.html>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>, L<Zoidberg>, L<http://zoidberg.sourceforge.net>

=cut
