=head1 COMMANDS

This module contains some usefull routines, supplying functionality
similar to regular built-ins for L<bash(1)>. When possible implements 
same options as bash for compatibility.

=head2 Commands

=over 4

=item _delete_object ZOIDNAME

Delete object (plugin) known as ZOIDNAME.
I<Be carefull -- this can delete core funtions.>

=item _hide THING

Hide THING from non-naked zoid namespace.

=item _load_object ZOIDNAME CLASS

Initialise object of CLASS under name ZOIDNAME.
Objects should be true object-oriented (ie.
they should have e routine 'new')

=item _unhide THING

Opposite of L</_hide>, add THING to non-naked zoid 
namespace.

=item cd DIR

Change your present working directory.

=item back, forw

Go back/forward to a previous/next directory.
Think like back and forward like in a browser.

=item echo STRING

Just print string -- no fancy options.

=item eval CODE

Execute CODE and return the exit status.

=item exec CODE

Like eval but quits zoid with exit status.

=item pwd

Print present working directory.

=item quit

Quit zoid -- same as Ctrl-d from Buffer.

=item set

=item set NAME=VALUE

=item set NAME VALUE

=item set NAME++

Command to manipulate C<%settings>.
If called without arguments set will print the names and values of all 
shell variables.

=item setenv VAR=VALUE

Like C<export> in most shells.
Same as C<$ENV{$var} = $value>.

=item source FILE

I<NOT compatible with posix shells>

Basicly the same as C<do FILE> in perl. FILE is supposed to be a perl script 
and could be using Zoidberg::Shell.

=back

=cut
